it's been a long and difficult day and
you're more than eager to go to bed
already
you hop into your pjs sit on the edge of
your bed
take out your phone and set an alarm for
stop
right there don't do that unless you
want tomorrow to be as hard as today
if you set an alarm on your phone it'll
naturally be the first thing you take
into your hands in the morning
and unless your gadget is from the 90s
and cut off from the internet
you're likely to browse the web doing
that first thing
even before getting up from bed is gonna
throw your routine into disarray
and your mind too when you browse the
internet
you let tons of information into your
brain you begin to process and react to
it immediately
some of the news you see might bring you
joy others might make you sad or worried
but either way it's all causing you
stress
during the day your body and mind are
prepared for this kind of informational
assault
but in the early hours you are most
vulnerable
it's long been proved that your morning
routine affects your well-being for the
whole day
so if you start your day with a whole
lot of new info
it's always a game of chance if the news
is generally good
you'll be okay but if there's something
wrong going on
it might ditch your mood and
productivity
browsing also has a bad habit of eating
up your time
what can be better than to lie down a
little bit more while scrolling through
your feed
right and a bit more ah
dang you're already running late even if
you wake up on time
chances are that your phone won't let
you go and you'll just end up in a hurry
again
screwing up your mood the flow of
information has a more
insidious effect as well during the day
like it or not you make a lot of choices
from what to wear to what to eat for
dinner
and as you go about your business you
use up your inner resources
think of it as a fatigue bar in the
video game the less there is
the fewer things you can do and when it
drops to zero
you're too tired to do anything at all
so by the end of the day you've made so
many choices that your fatigue bar
is at its minimum that's why
psychologists advise
not to leave any crucial decisions until
late in the day
and resolve those issues as early as
possible
[Music]
but here's where your phone comes into
play as you browse through the web in
the morning
you don't even notice it yet you make
lots of decisions right away
oh this post about cats is funny yeah
let's take a look
choice one wow my cousin's aunt's
grandson's sister is getting married i
should congratulate her
choice two dang there's a traffic jam on
the road to your favorite bakery
i need to find another route choice 3
all these things deplete your resources
way earlier than usual
you become exhausted much faster during
the day
this may lead to tiredness and lack of
productivity
making you dream of lunch time and going
back home
so keep your phone away from your bed
and turn off all notifications for the
night
better yet consider turning off wifi and
your mobile connection altogether
this way you won't have any network
notifications at all
and even though turning them back on is
just a few flicks of a finger away
it's still some additional trouble so
maybe
you don't want to do that in the morning
putting your phone on mute while you're
asleep is also a good idea
if you don't expect any calls during the
night turn off
all sounds and vibration otherwise you
might be woken up by an unsolicited call
from some bank or store
offering you their new credit card or
asking to answer a quick public poll
on the other hand your phone may come in
handy to help you sleep better
scientists say it's best to sleep with
all lights out and in complete silence
but some of us just need some soothing
sounds to drift into the land of sweet
dreams
so install a special app that plays some
asmr
or just some pleasant monotonous sounds
like that of rain or the sea
just don't forget to turn off
notifications and block incoming calls
or you might have an unpleasant shock in
the middle of your dream
falling asleep with a smartphone can be
difficult too
the blue light its screen emits messes
with your melatonin levels
forcing you awake melatonin is a sleep
hormone that starts being produced when
your body's tired
and getting ready to zone out but you
just can't drop into slumber without
browsing the web one last time
can you to help your body fall asleep
after you've put away your smartphone
turn on the night shift feature it'll
minimize the blue light by making the
screen's color pattern warmer
it's more pleasant to look at the screen
at night this way and you won't feel
restless afterwards
most phones have this feature built into
them but if yours doesn't
at least turn on the eye saver mode it
has a similar function
the only difference is the hue the night
shift mode
has a deeper warmer look to make the
effect
even better turn on the night mode
within the apps you're using
instead of changing the color scheme
they switch the light colors to dark
ones
making you less exposed to blue light
setting the brightness on your phone to
minimum while using it at night
is helpful too the brighter your screen
the more blue light you receive
no matter what precautions you use so
put that brightness slider all the way
to the left until you can barely see
what's on the screen
but you're still comfortable with it
don't overdo it though
if you strain too hard to read the text
you'll just add to your stress
and keep yourself from falling asleep in
the morning
you can energize yourself and prepare
for the day ahead by ignoring your phone
altogether until you leave your home
set a separate alarm clock that will
only show you the time
and go about your morning routine take a
shower
have breakfast whatever you can always
check your correspondence when you go
outside
ready for the day sleeping in is
tempting
especially in the middle of a week so
just hit that snooze button
indulge yourself right nah it's best not
to
snoozing for 10 or 15 minutes won't do
you any good
on the contrary you'll just feel even
more tired than if you get up at the
first ring of your alarm clock
to resist temptation put that clock on
the other end of your room
you'll have to crawl out of bed to turn
it off and getting back
won't be an option unless you're really
that exhausted
if you are snoozing isn't that bad you
only need to do it the smart way
your sleep is divided into pretty short
cycles no more than 90 minutes each
to get properly rested you need at least
four such cycles to pass
or you'll be using up your inner
resources which aren't infinite
so if you're not the one to wake up at
the first ring set your alarm for an
hour and a half before the actual time
you need to get up even if you've had a
good night's sleep
you might feel drowsy around lunchtime
and especially
after lunch it's all about your
biological rhythms
your body asks for some rest about seven
hours after waking up
to get yourself through the rest of the
day try to have a 20 to 30 minute nap in
a quiet place
you can also drink a cup of coffee just
before such a nap
sounds counter-intuitive right but
caffeine starts working about 20-30
minutes after ingesting
if you sleep during this time your brain
will find it easier to adapt
after all it doesn't have to work hard
until the coffee kicks in
as a result you'll wake up more
energized and ready to finish the day
now if you don't have a chance to nap in
the middle of the day
why not get in some good old pe meaning
physical exercise of course
a mild workout will get your blood
pumping and your brain
oxygenated running walking up and down
the stairs
or doing push-ups all help to get rid of
sleepiness
when you still have work to do